This text file explains 'CSaldanaPhD_Chapter2Data.xlsx', the supporting data file for Experiments 1, 2 and 3 in Chapter 2 'The cultural evolution of complex compositional structure in the laboratory' of Carmen Saldana's doctoral thesis 'Simplifying linguistic complexity: Culture and cognition in language evolution' (2017). 

'CSaldanaPhD_Chapter2_data.xlsx' contains 12 spreadsheets, divided in groups of 4. Each group belongs to one experiment, and each sheet to the data of an experimental transmission chain. Sheets that belong to Experiment 1 are named 'Exp1' and marked red; those that belong to Experiment 2, are named 'Exp2' and marked blue; and the sheets belonging to Experiment 3, are named 'Exp 3' and marked orange. 

Experiment 1 contains data from an iterated language learning experiment with a transmission bottleneck and an artificial pressure against ambiguity during production.
Experiment 2 contains data from an iterated language learning experiment with a transmission bottleneck and communicative interaction during production.
Experiment 3 contains data from an iterated language learning experiment with a transmission bottleneck, communicative interaction, and an artificial pressure against ambiguity in production.

Each spreadsheet contains the randomly generated initial languages as well as the output languages produced by participants at each generation. Descriptions of the column headings are as follows:

Meaning --  the meaning the descriptions refer to. (PFV stands for perfective or terminated aspect; its absence, indicate imperfective or ongoing aspect.)
Initial Language --  the randomised initial language used to train the first generation of the transmission chain
Generation 1 --  the language produced by the first generation in the transmission chain. Generation 1 is trained on a randomly selected set of items from the initial language (44 in Exp 1 and 40 in Exp 2 and Exp3).
Generation 2 to 8 -- the language produced by the corresponding generation (2 to 8) in the transmission chain. Each generation is trained on a randomly selected set of items from the previous generation (44 in Exp 1 and 40 in Exp 2 and Exp3).








